## ECS 160
ECS 160 will cover the fundamentals of software engineering. We will focus on the principles, methods, and tools used to design, develop, test, and maintain high-quality software systems.
The course will focus on four main areas---software architecture, design patterns, software security, and quality control. 

The course will consist of lectures, in-class hands-on exercises, and 4 homework assignments. The course expects the students to have basic to intermediate familiarity with object-oriented concepts
in Java, such as classes, inheritance, exceptions, and so on, and also have basic familiarity with C. We will try to revise OO fundamentals in Java during the first week of class, but students who do not have
familiarity with _any_ OO language are advised to spend significant effort ramping up.

### Prerequisites

The course has a formal prerequisite of ECS 140A, in addition to what is described above.


### Basic information

| **Information**          | **Details**                                                                 |
|----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Instructor**      | Tapti Palit (tpalit@ucdavis.edu)                                                 |
| **TA**              | Hsin-Ai Chen (xacchen@ucdavis.edu)                     |
| **Lectures**        | MWF 9:00 AM - 9:50 AM in Wellman Hall 234              |
| **Discussion**      | W 10 AM - 10:50 AM in Chem 179                         |
| **Piazza**     | https://piazza.com/ucdavis/winter2024/ecs160winter2025/home               |
| **Instructor Office Hours**    | M 1PM - 3 PM, W 1 PM - 2 PM in Academic Surge 2087                   |
| **TA Office Hours** | F 1:30 PM - 2:30 PM in Kemper 47. |

### Schedule

The course schedule can be found [here](Schedule.md). 

The slides and homeworks will be posted well ahead of the lecture day, but can be updated any time to fix errors, improve clarity, and so on. Since the course website
is hosted on Github, you can check the commit history to know what was updated.

Lectures will be recorded (TBD discussions).

### Grading

Grading will be broken down as follows. Please note that the Canvas grades are typically not weighted, so please use the following weightage when computing your grade. 

| **Grading component**          | **Weightage**                                                                 |
|----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Midterm**      | 15%                                                 |
| **Final**        | 20%                     |
| **Assignments**  | 60%              |
| **Participation and Quizzes**      | 5%                         |

The midterm and final will be in-class and closed book. The assignments will be performed in groups of 2.

The grade cutoffs will be as follows. Grades cutoffs might be lowered further, but you will always get _at least_ the grade mentioned in the table below if you score the required percentage. 

| **Percentage**          | **Grade**                                                                 |
|----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **93%**      | A                     |
| **90%**      | A-                     |
| **87%**      | B+                     |
| **83%**      | B                     |
| **80%**      | B-                     |
| **77%**      | C+                     |
| **73%**      | C                     |
| **70%**      | C-                    |
| **67%**      | D+                    |
| **63%**      | D                     |
| **60%**      | D-                    |

## Textbook

There is no required textbook. But the following textbooks and resources are recommended for reference.

- Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software, by Gamma Erich, Helm Richard, Johnson Ralph, Vlissides John, Grady Booch
- Effective Java, by Joshua Bloch
- Hacking: The Art of Exploitation by Jon Erickson
- The C Programming Language by Brian Kernighan, Dennis Ritchie

## Policies

### Collaboration 

Assignments will be completed in groups of two. You are welcome to discuss _approaches_ and _design_ with your classmates in different groups, but you are forbidden from discussing code and sharing code. You are explicitly encouraged to
help your colleagues on Piazza; in fact your Piazza participation will count towards the participation component of your grade.

### Using AI
Using AI ([ChatGPT](chatgpt.com), [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot))is permitted, but you
should not blindly turn in code generated by AI. Similarly, you are allowed to use AI for 
debugging help, but are strongly discouraged from using it to write the code. If you use AI to debug, say an exception, you should focus on understanding why that exception occurred in the first place, and not blindly apply the fix.

### Late policy
Homework assignments are due 11:59 PM on the day of the deadline. Each group has 3 late days that they can use any time during the course, without any grade penalty. After the three days expire, submissions after the deadline will be graded with a penalty, at the instructor's discretion.

## Student support

UC Davis is dedicated to supporting the mental health and well-being of all students. 
If you or someone you know is feeling overwhelmed, depressed, or in need of assistance, confidential mental health services are available through [Student Health and Counseling Services](https://shcs.ucdavis.edu/).
Please also feel free to contact me by scheduling separate office hours if you would like to discuss any such factors affecting your class performance. Additional accommodations might also be available to address these factors.






