homework/Homework-1.md, before:

# ECS160-HW1 
#### _(Start date: 10/10/2025)_
#### _(Due date: TBD)_
## Problem 1: Getting Started with the GitHub API  

### Preliminaries
1. This assignment can be completed in either Java, C++, or Rust.
2. You're welcome to use any libraries or crates that will help you with your job, but for Java, you can't use any reflection or annotations-based API. Basically, if you find yourself doing something like applying `@[annotation_name` to a class or field, or ever specify `[Classname].class` as an argument to a method---you can't use it. 

### Learning objectives
1. Java basics: Encapsulation, Inheritance, File I/O, Exceptions.
2. Testing: JUnit, continuous integration via Github Actions (extra credit).
3. Tools and libraries: [for Java] Maven, adding dependencies to `pom.xml`, Gson for parsing JSON files, databases (NoSQL).

### Total points: 10

## Task Overview

We will use the **GitHub API** to gather data about popular repositories in different languages, analyze their activity, and store results in Redis. 
We will use the number of stars to determine the popularity of repositories. To determine how active each repository is, we will use how many times
the repository was forked, and how many _new_ commits were made to the forked repository. We will store these details in a way that is easily retrievable
in Redis. The future assignments will directly use the data stored in Redis, instead of making the GitHub API calls again. You are welcome to use Postgresql 
instead of Redis, if you'd like.


### Part A. Download Repository Data
1. **Fetch data with the GitHub API**  
   - Download the list of the top 10 most popular repositories in each of these languages:  
     - Java  
     - C / C++  
     - Rust  
   - Also download the list of all forks for each repository, and the recent commits to these forked repositories.
   - Helpful URLs to get started
        1. GitHub REST API - https://docs.github.com/en/rest?apiVersion=2022-11-28
        2. Search API - https://docs.github.com/en/rest/search/search?apiVersion=2022-11-28#search-repositories
        
2. **Parse the results**  
   - Use the JSON responses to create class/struct objects:  
     - **Repo**. Some suggested fields are---
       1. name
       2. ownerLogin
       3. htmlUrl
       4. forksCount
       5. language
       6. openIssuesCount
       7. List<Repo> forks; // List to hold forked repositories
       8. List<Commit> recentCommits; // List to hold commits
       9. List<Issue> issues; // List to hold issues
       10. commitCount; // To hold the number of commits

     - **Owner**
        1. login
        2. id
        3. htmlUrl
        4. site_admin
     - **Issue**
        1. title
        2. body
        3. state
        4. createdAt
        5. updatedAt
   - You're welcome to store more fields or fewer, as long as you can still compute the statistics mentioned below.


### Part B. Compute Statistics
For the top 10 repositories in each language, compute:  

1. **Popularity / Activity Metrics**
   - Total stars across the top 10 repos.  
   - Total forks across the top 10 repos.  
   - Last 50 (or fewer) commits:  
     - Which files were modified?  
     - Identify the Top-3 *most modified files*.  
   - Number of **new commits** in forked repos.  
   - Total open issues in the top 10 repos.  

2. **Display Results**  
   After your program runs, it should display:  
   - **Language:** [lang name]  
   - **Total stars:** [star count]  
   - **Total forks:** [fork count]  
   - **Most modified file per repo:**  
     - Repo name: [repo name]  
     - File name: [file name]  
   - **New commits in forked repos:** [count]  
   - **Open issues in top-10 repos:** [count]  


### Part C. Clone and Inspect Repositories
1. From the top-10 repositories, determine which ones actually contain **source code** (not just tutorials or documentation).  
2. Clone the **most popular repository** for each language.  
   - Verify that it’s a real codebase and not a tutorial repository. (Question: How should you do that?)
   - Feel free to clone with `--depth 1` to only pull the latest commit.


### Part D. Store Results
- Save the repository details and computed stats into **Redis**.
- Redis is a key-value store, so it can save data of different types.
- Here are some `redis-cli` command line examples. In the homework, we will use a Java library such as Jedis. For example, a repo with name `r1` and owner `u1` can be stored as follows
  1. `redis-cli hset reponame:r1 url "https://github.com/repos/r1" commitCount 100 owner "owner:u1"`
- To retrieve the data we can use---
  1. `redis-cli hgetall reponame:r1` # To print all keys and values
  2. `redis-cli hget reponame:r1 owner` # To just print the owner key
  3. `redis-cli hget owner:u1`
- You can use different logical keyspaces in Redis if needed for organization, but it is not mandatory.



### Part E. Unit Testing and GitHub Actions
- Develop unit tests for each of the statistics computed in Part B.1.
- The unit tests should **only** pass Java objects to the methods under test
- **Absolutely no** GitHub APIs should be invoked during unit testing
- Set up a GitHub Action to automatically run the unit tests on every push to the repo.
  1. GitHub Actions: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/get-started/quickstart

---

### Additional hints
#### Suggested Libraries for Java
- Gson for Json parsing (as long as you don't use the reflection or annotations-based approach)
- Apache HttpComponents for sending and receiving HTTP requests and responses
- JGit for cloning Git repos from Java
- Jedis for using Redis
- JUnit for testing

#### Sample addition to `pom.xml` to add the Gson library

Please add this under the `<dependencies></dependencies>` block.
```
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.google.code.gson</groupId>
            <artifactId>gson</artifactId>
            <version>2.11.0</version>
        </dependency>
```

#### Sample GitHub API request to print the first page of all C repos using curl
```
curl -L   -H "Accept: application/vnd.github+json"   -H "X-GitHub-Api-Version: 2022-11-28"   "https://api.github.com/search/repositories?q=language=C"
```

Commit message:

Can ignore recursive forks when computing stats.
Clarify instruction on counting new commits in forked repos.

homework/Homework-1.md, after:

# ECS160-HW1 
#### _(Start date: 10/10/2025)_
#### _(Due date: TBD)_
## Problem 1: Getting Started with the GitHub API  

### Preliminaries
1. This assignment can be completed in either Java, C++, or Rust.
2. You're welcome to use any libraries or crates that will help you with your job, but for Java, you can't use any reflection or annotations-based API. Basically, if you find yourself doing something like applying `@[annotation_name` to a class or field, or ever specify `[Classname].class` as an argument to a method---you can't use it. 

### Learning objectives
1. Java basics: Encapsulation, Inheritance, File I/O, Exceptions.
2. Testing: JUnit, continuous integration via Github Actions (extra credit).
3. Tools and libraries: [for Java] Maven, adding dependencies to `pom.xml`, Gson for parsing JSON files, databases (NoSQL).

### Total points: 10

## Task Overview

We will use the **GitHub API** to gather data about popular repositories in different languages, analyze their activity, and store results in Redis. 
We will use the number of stars to determine the popularity of repositories. To determine how active each repository is, we will use how many times
the repository was forked, and how many _new_ commits were made to the forked repository. We will store these details in a way that is easily retrievable
in Redis. The future assignments will directly use the data stored in Redis, instead of making the GitHub API calls again. You are welcome to use Postgresql 
instead of Redis, if you'd like.


### Part A. Download Repository Data
1. **Fetch data with the GitHub API**  
   - Download the list of the top 10 most popular repositories in each of these languages:  
     - Java  
     - C / C++  
     - Rust  
   - Also download the list of all forks for each repository, and the recent commits to these forked repositories.
   - Helpful URLs to get started
        1. GitHub REST API - https://docs.github.com/en/rest?apiVersion=2022-11-28
        2. Search API - https://docs.github.com/en/rest/search/search?apiVersion=2022-11-28#search-repositories
        
2. **Parse the results**  
   - Use the JSON responses to create class/struct objects:  
     - **Repo**. Some suggested fields are---
       1. name
       2. ownerLogin
       3. htmlUrl
       4. forksCount
       5. language
       6. openIssuesCount
       7. List<Repo> forks; // List to hold forked repositories
       8. List<Commit> recentCommits; // List to hold commits
       9. List<Issue> issues; // List to hold issues
       10. commitCount; // To hold the number of commits

     - **Owner**
        1. login
        2. id
        3. htmlUrl
        4. site_admin
     - **Issue**
        1. title
        2. body
        3. state
        4. createdAt
        5. updatedAt
   - You're welcome to store more fields or fewer, as long as you can still compute the statistics mentioned below.


### Part B. Compute Statistics
For the top 10 repositories in each language, compute:  

1. **Popularity / Activity Metrics**
   - Total stars across the top 10 repos.  
   - Total forks across the top 10 repos.  
   - Last 50 (or fewer) commits:  
     - Which files were modified?  
     - Identify the Top-3 *most modified files*.  
   - Number of **new commits** in forked repos (you can ignore any recursive forks).
   - Total open issues in the top 10 repos.  

2. **Display Results**  
   After your program runs, it should display:  
   - **Language:** [lang name]  
   - **Total stars:** [star count]  
   - **Total forks:** [fork count]  
   - **Most modified file per repo:**  
     - Repo name: [repo name]  
     - File name: [file name]  
   - **New commits in forked repos:** [count]  
   - **Open issues in top-10 repos:** [count]  


### Part C. Clone and Inspect Repositories
1. From the top-10 repositories, determine which ones actually contain **source code** (not just tutorials or documentation).  
2. Clone the **most popular repository** for each language.  
   - Verify that it’s a real codebase and not a tutorial repository. (Question: How should you do that?)
   - Feel free to clone with `--depth 1` to only pull the latest commit.


### Part D. Store Results
- Save the repository details and computed stats into **Redis**.
- Redis is a key-value store, so it can save data of different types.
- Here are some `redis-cli` command line examples. In the homework, we will use a Java library such as Jedis. For example, a repo with name `r1` and owner `u1` can be stored as follows
  1. `redis-cli hset reponame:r1 url "https://github.com/repos/r1" commitCount 100 owner "owner:u1"`
- To retrieve the data we can use---
  1. `redis-cli hgetall reponame:r1` # To print all keys and values
  2. `redis-cli hget reponame:r1 owner` # To just print the owner key
  3. `redis-cli hget owner:u1`
- You can use different logical keyspaces in Redis if needed for organization, but it is not mandatory.



### Part E. Unit Testing and GitHub Actions
- Develop unit tests for each of the statistics computed in Part B.1.
- The unit tests should **only** pass Java objects to the methods under test
- **Absolutely no** GitHub APIs should be invoked during unit testing
- Set up a GitHub Action to automatically run the unit tests on every push to the repo.
  1. GitHub Actions: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/get-started/quickstart

---

### Additional hints
#### Suggested Libraries for Java
- Gson for Json parsing (as long as you don't use the reflection or annotations-based approach)
- Apache HttpComponents for sending and receiving HTTP requests and responses
- JGit for cloning Git repos from Java
- Jedis for using Redis
- JUnit for testing

#### Sample addition to `pom.xml` to add the Gson library

Please add this under the `<dependencies></dependencies>` block.
```
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.google.code.gson</groupId>
            <artifactId>gson</artifactId>
            <version>2.11.0</version>
        </dependency>
```

#### Sample GitHub API request to print the first page of all C repos using curl
```
curl -L   -H "Accept: application/vnd.github+json"   -H "X-GitHub-Api-Version: 2022-11-28"   "https://api.github.com/search/repositories?q=language=C"
```
